If you're finished with a cluster and want to clean things up so
you aren't getting charged for idle resources,
you'll first delete the load balancer service by using kubectl delete service,
then the name of the load balancer service.
Next,
you'll delete the cluster with eksctl delete
cluster and the name of the cluster.
If you're no longer using the images you pushed to the registry,
you'll want to delete those as well.
You can list the images in a repository with aws ecr
list-images and the repository name.
To delete individual images or a list of specific images,
use aws ecr batch-delete-image with the repository name and a list of image ids.
If you're completely done with a repository,
you can delete it with the aws ecr delete-repository command.
Pass in the repository name,
then if you want to just delete any images still in the repository,
include the --force flag.
Let's start out deleting the load balancer service.
We'll get the name of the service, then run kubectl delete service.
Next, we'll delete the cluster using eksctl delete cluster.
Behind the scenes, eksctl is using cloud formation stacks.
You can access cloud formation from the web console to see what's going on.
We can see the status of DELETE_IN_PROGRESS for the stack that's being deleted.
Once eksctl delete cluster returns on the command line,
some operations may still be running in cloud formation.
When we refresh, we can see the first stack is deleted,
but the second stack is still in progress.
We'll give it a couple minutes, refresh, and now it's deleted.
Finally, let's delete the images.
We'll list the images with aws ecr list-images.
Here's the information for both images that we pushed to the repository.
We'll delete the 2.0 version using aws ecr batch-delete-image,
then pass in the name of the repository and the image id.
When we run list-images, only the 1.0 version remains in the repository.
Let's go ahead and delete the repository,
and we'll include the --force flag,
which will also delete the 1.0 version that is still in the repository.
When the command completes,
we can double check in the web console under ECR and
see that there are no repositories.
Congratulations!
You can now use the Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service.
You've gone through an entire application lifecycle; creating,
scaling, updating, and deleting.
Now you can try it out with your own app.
I encourage you to also check out the modules on Azure and
Google so you can decide for yourself which cloud Kubernetes service makes the most sense for you.